### Solo playtesting

* What if all 4 players play the same card? Well that's a missed turn for everyone, as they can't perform any action. For example, if all 4 players used the D on the same turn, with the D power starting at 3F and decreasing by 1F for each other player using the same card, then it would be `3 - 3 = 0`, ie nobody can sell any F.
* Predictably, the last round everyone wants to use their drones to sell out.. is there any other way to make this more interesting? Maybe get a *fixed amount* of H for each F you don't sell (my hunch is somewhere between 5 and 7 H).
* Get 1 extra H for each card left in your hand at the end? Or you can sell them back at face value (W = 1H, D = 2H)?
* Could *beesaster* / the referendum trigger some come-back mechanic? For example, if you trigger *beesaster* the players involved have to discard one card (either a D or a Q) and replenish the max number of flowers they could take with the worker.
* What if **the price of W & D bees grew with number of turns**? Starting at 1H in round 1 (both D and W) and growing by 1H at every round. That could balance the lowering number of F for the honeypot. It may also encourage players to use the Q early on as a long-term investment.
* The **honeypot** adds a nice variety to each round, but it also means some time is spent working out how to split it, both in players' heads and in practice. Try with a fixed-price flower market, like the 36H or the 18H *austerity* prices, and see if that makes a big difference.