# GameCamp - 3p

Tested a modified [v4.1](../versions/v4.1) with three players at [GameCamp](https://gamecamp.org.uk/).

Modifications:

* 9 rounds instead of 12.
* No strict order of actions on player turns (aka `laissez-faire`): you can steal honey, then buy cards and steal again if you like (more on that below).
* Replanting **one flower per player**.

Final scores:

|  | Tillman | Claude | Ian | 
|--|----|----|----|
| Worker | 3 | 4 | 1 | 
| Drone  | 0 | 0 | 3 | 
| Queen  | 1 | 0 | 0 | 
| Honey  | 16 | 17 | 17 |

## What went well

- Players liked the game idea and found the metaphor fitting
- They complimented the game's visual design
- 9 turns seems like a decent length, time-wise: it took about 25 minutes to get from start to end. 
- Final scores were very close: 16 - 17 - 17 (joint winner)

## Even better if

- There was some confusion around *selling*, *trading* and *liquidating* bees. This is not trivial and needs to be explained to players before they start, as they pointed out it changes their game strategies. As usual, people assumed/asked "Can I sell all my bees at the end?"
- **Referendum** was triggered on round 7: 2 yes and 1 no. Didn't seem to be very exciting though. Maybe there could be a small **incentive for voting yes**, like you get a free honey?
- **Buy-then-steal**: people preferred a `laissez-faire` approach (or rather, an unordered list). You can steal honey, then buy cards and steal again if you like. This way you don't have to keep reminding people what not to do, so it feels less regulated (more `beeo-liberalist`). In terms of rulebook, a `laissez-faire` approach would mean we can still suggest the buy-first-steal-later order but we can point out players have the ability to do those actions in whichever order they wish (so we can also get rid of a couple of FAQs).
- Players thought the **Queen** is not very useful. One player bought it and got a couple of bees at 50% but felt it wasn't worth it (no ROI). The short game (9 rounds) and small number of players may explain why the queen wasn't considered. I'm thinking to get rid of it for a few games and see what happens! Players thought this could be an interesting change, where you only have two "roads to wealth": labour+market or robbery. 

## Comments 

- Tillman thought it'd be interesting if the `nuclear trigger` were something that people don't trigger voluntarily, but by mistake/miscalculation/chance.
- Ian suggested there could be a penalty for depleting the garden (ie, the last few flowers are more expensive to extract)

## Actions

- [x] Try a few games without the queen. 
- [x] Keep experimenting with 9-rounds.
- [x] Try the drone power as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. For example: if I attack a player that has 3 drones, then I'll roll the die and take `die - 3` from them. If the number is negative, then you end up giving them some honey.
- [ ] Last few flowers are more expensive to extract?
- [ ] How could the `environmental apocalypse` be triggered involuntarily? Immediately after a referendum vote (and before replanting) if you voted `yes` you get a honey, if you voted `no` you get a flower. This means that you may run out of flowers before you get to replant them, even if `yes` won.  



