Tested [v4](../versions/v4) with 4 primary school children.

### What worked

- **3-honey note** makes payments smoother. Make sure you give people a few 1-honey notes also, so that they can have "spare change" when it comes to paying off drones
- **Stalk exchange**, a frenzied minute where everyone tries to sell as many of their flowers as possible and maximise their profits (or lower everyone else's profits) 
- **Conversion charts** make it quicker to work out the value of a flower

### What didn't work

**Privatisation** didn't make sense to any player. They bought all the queens that were available on the deck (6), but didn't really know how to use them. I explained the mechanics a couple of times, and only one player really got it (she won the game in the end). 

The privatisation "protocol" is also rather clunky: you take flowers, then you put some of them on the market, but instead of trading them you keep one on the queen... and how do you distinguish between the ones you took and the ones you privatised?

I asked Marco if he would prefer the queen to be able to **generate bees** (as queen bees do IRL) instead of privatising flowers. He said yes but thought it would be too powerful a skill. So he suggested that the queen could allow you to buy other bees at a lower price, say 1/2 or 1/3 of their normal cost: **cheap labour**!  

### Actions

- [ ] Print flower tokens
- [ ] Give people a few 1-honey notes
- [ ] Timer to limit players' turns and marketplace
- [ ] `You could sell your flowers now for 1 honey each, or wait for the market place at the end of the round`
- [ ] `You cannot dismiss bees. You can only make them redundant if you're being attacked by a drone and don't have enough honey`

### Ideas for the future

- v5, it's coming