# Cambridge Playtest v4.3 - 4p

Tested [v4.3](../versions/v4.3) with Federico, Anthony, Ollie and James at [PlaytestUK Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Playtest/events/241141425/).

[Listen to them playing](https://soundcloud.com/bpt20170704/federico-anthony-ollie-and-james-v43-cambridge-playtestuk?in=beesness/sets/playtesting).

Version **4.3** includes:

* **Freelance workers**, price 1H.
* **2-step** market after the last round.
* Only **1 colour** flowers.
* **No replanting** flowers at the end of each round.
* **Flower market's capacity is 36 H**, prices go as follows 
* Players can *trade* two or more bees for another bee with the bank, eg trade a worker (6H) for 2 drones (3H + 3H), 2 workers (6H + 6H) for a queen (12H).
* Bees are limited: 6D, 6W and 6Q.
* Players start with 1W + 6H.
* Queen's cap is 12 honey.
* Referendum: each player gets a vote. If it's a tie, you count the number of bees (larger beesnesses win).

	| Flowers | Price | 
	|--|--|
	| 1 | 36H |
	| 2 | 18H |
	| 3 | 12H |
	| 4 | 9H |
	| 5 | 7H |
	| 6 | 6H |
	| 7-8 | 5H |
	| 9-10 | 4H |
	| 11-14 | 3H |
	| 15-23 | 2H |
	| 24+ | 1H |

## What happened

We played a short game, just 4 rounds and 12 flowers (instead of 24).

Anthony and Federico suggested a **new bees market + auction system**: 

* Bee cards are sold one at a time. 
* The player starting the next round takes the one card s/he wants and declares `I want this {bee type} for {stated price}`. If nobody else wants it, then s/he can go ahead and pay for it. Otherwise an auction for that card starts. 
* Auction: players interested in that card have to offer at least 1H more than the last offer.
* Once the card is sold, the market moves on to the next card, with the player to the left of the previous one getting to choose the card s/he wants and potentially starting another auction. This continues clockwise until nobody wants to buy anything.   

Final scores:

| | Federico | Anthony | Ollie | James | 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Honey | 27 | 24 | 20 | 17 |

## What went well

* New bees market system is clear, fair and potentially more efficient than the previous *chaos*.

* Workers at 1H seems like a decent starting price, even though most of the times they sell for more. 

* Auctions are the most exciting part of the game (according to the noise level in the recording).

* 2-step last market is a good rule, which should be extended to all the rounds according to Ollie.

## Even better if

* Ref: `discard` instead of `sacrifice`.

* Q: `Why would you say no to a ref?` Because you may not want to discard your bee (you may ned it later), or because it may be in your interest that there are very little flowers in the market. 

* Q: `Could someone end the game tactically, as the game offers them this opportunity?` Yes, that's a problem indeed, as there's no individual penalty for triggering a *beesaster*. Instead, you punish everyone. 

* Q: `Is there any point not to sell all your flowers?` Storing flowers for later rounds didn't seem beneficial. You may want to keep them for later, as you predict that there will be less flowers going in future markets (flowers scarcity). Currently this is unlikely, but if each round there was a 2-step market then it would start to make more sense.

* People suggested there should be a 2-step market at every round (with a smaller market size).

* 2-step market, q: `Would you ever not split them?` It's a gamble.

* Q: `Are the bees worth points?` No.

* Anthony suggested that the bee cards have a coloured outline that makes them immediately distinguishable.

* James felt the drones were not that useful, but Ollie said they come to effect towards the end of the game. Anthony suggested we could have a custom die, eg: `6 5 5 4 4 3` to increase their average pay-off. Federico also felt that the drone is currently too expensive for its ROI (average pay-off is 3.5, cost is 3 at best).

* Anthony and Ollie were concerned about the *beesaster*. Since the game offers players the opportunity it would make sense for a player who's realised s/he can't win to just end the game. `There's no reason not to end the game if you're losing` says Ollie `but I don't think that's being a dick, there's just nothing left in it for you`.

* Ollie doesn't see what the flowers running out adds to the game. What would happen if the flowers never run out? 

* Anthony asked what did I envisage with the *beesaster* rule: did I want to have a referendum in the game, or to give players the chance to end the game? He doesn't like the idea of somebody ending the game for everyone else. He doesn't think the game needs it. 

* Ollie thinks that the flowers running out represents the economy crushing for a moment, and that could be an opportunity for a redistribution of flowers/honey (the leader giving them to the players left behind, who could get back into the game). 

* James reckons that *beesaster* is a risk that player would not want to play that game again.

* For Ollie, the most interesting part of the game was the gamble between keeping honey that could be stolen, or investing it in bees. Deciding how to spend it and when to spend it.

* Ollie would like a more raucous auction phase. Anthony says it depends on the audience, as some players want structure.

* Ollie suggested an auction with limited bees (only 5 or so bees per market).

## Actions

- [ ] Auction with limited bees (only 5 or so bees per market)
- [ ] What would happen if the flowers never run out? 
- [ ] Bee cards with a coloured outline that makes them immediately distinguishable.
- [ ] Ref: `discard` instead of `sacrifice`.