# The Hive v4.1 - 4p

Tested a modified [v4.1](../versions/v4.1) with Sam, Denise, Alex and Ben at [The Hive](http://www.thehivewellbeing.com/) (someone asked if it was a coincidence that we were playing a bee-themed game in a place called `Hive` maybe it wasn't?).

This was mostly an experiment to test an alternative drone mechanic (using dice and having the drone as a defence card as well).

Modifications:

* **8 rounds** instead of 12.
* No strict order of actions on player turns (aka `laissez-faire`): you can steal honey, then buy cards and steal again if you like.
* Replanting **one flower per player**.
* **No queen**.
* **Drone** power as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. For example: if I attack a player that has 3 drones, then I'll roll the die and take `die - 3` from them. If the number is negative, then you end up giving them some honey. However, drones can **only steal honey** (not flowers, not bees).

Final scores:

|  | Alex | Denise | Sam | Ben | 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Worker | 4 | 3 | 4 | 3 |
| Drone  | 3 | 1 | 3 | 3 |
| Honey  | 15 | 4 | 6 | 5 |
| Bees value | 72 | 30 | 66 | 54 |

## What went well

*Not much really*. The game lasted for about **1 hour** (there was a lot of discussion and feedback as we played, on top of the initial tutorial for the 2 players who were completely new to the game) but people seemed to be fine with that. However, there was less excitement than when we played v4 at NowPlayThis. 

People agreed that 8 rounds was better than 9, because there were 8 players. 

## The drone experiment 

The **drone mechanics worked slightly better** than on [Monday at PlaytestUK](2017-05-08.md#the-drone-experiment). 

Since **drones could only steal honey**, players would try to have as little of it lying around as possible, while investing in bees and collecting flowers. As a result the **final scores were really low** compared to the "usual" game. 

This also meant that the **flowers market became predictable**: the player who would start the next round first had a huge incentive to sell their flowers (knowing that they wouldn't be attacked by drones) and then immediately buying bees with them. The other players tended to stock up flowers until the last round, when the price dropped to 1. 

There was also a big advantage in going first (due to `laissez-faire`, no strict order of actions) so the **gameplay felt unbalanced and drones were still overpowering**. 

## Even better if

People suggested a few things:

* Denise: when attacked by a drone, players could decide to surrender a flower instead of honey.
* Ben: there could be a defence die and a Risk-style combat.
* Alex: after attacking with a drone, you would have to flip that drone card over for the rest of the round, so it wouldn't count as a defence card (this is quite interesting). 
* Matteo: there could be a bees market right after the flowers market, in which every player can safely buy bees before the next round starts. This may avoid the reluctance of players to sell flowers for fear of drone strikes, and it could simplify the turn actions.
* Sam: have a third bee that allows you to store honey in a sort of *savings account* (that honey could not be stolen by drones, but you wouldn't be able to access it either to buy bees). This could be the Queen bee.
* Alex: replant one flower per turn (instead of 4 flowers at the beginning of the round) to mitigate the first player's advantage
* Matteo: have some sort of *privatised garden*, a partition of the Garden of Commons where only you can pick flowers.
* Matteo: instead of defending with the drones, you defend with the workers.
* Alex: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee (so that each beesness becomes a *party*).
 
## Actions

- [ ] Keep experimenting with 9 rounds for 3 players, 8 rounds for 4 (and 10 for 5?). This really depends on how we mitigate the first-player advantage. If there was little/no advantage, then the number of rounds wouldn't really matter and we could think of it more in terms of minutes (around 30 ideally)
- [ ] **Start with a worker, a drone and 12 honey** (no die roll).
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the drone power as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. However:
	- [ ] The **drone can steal only honey**.
	- [ ] After an attack you have to flip that drone card so it won't count as a defence card for the rest of the round.
	- [ ] The player you attack can decide whether to give you honey or 1 flower.
- [ ] Try the drone power as `dice - workers of the player you're attacking` (workers as defence).
- [ ] Experiment with the queen as *savings account*. 
- [ ] **Bees market** right after the flower market and before the start of a new round.
- [ ] Experiment with the *privatised garden*, a partition of the Garden of Commons where only you can pick flowers. You **replant half the flowers you picked last round**.
* [ ] **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee.
- [ ] How could the `environmental apocalypse` be triggered involuntarily? Immediately after a referendum vote (and before replanting) if you voted `yes` you get a honey, if you voted `no` you get a flower. This means that you may run out of flowers before you get to replant them, even if `yes` won.  



