# PlaytestUK - 3p

Tested a modified [v4](https://github.com/matteomenapace/beesness/tree/v4) with three players at [PLaytestUK](https://www.meetup.com/Playtest/events/238614773/): Bez, Mike I and Mike H.

Modifications:

* **9 rounds** instead of 12.
* No strict order of actions on player turns (aka `laissez-faire`): you can steal honey, then buy cards and steal again if you like.
* Replanting **one flower per player**.
* **No queen**.
* **Drone** power as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. For example: if I attack a player that has 3 drones, then I'll roll the die and take `die - 3` from them. If the number is negative, then you end up giving them some honey.

## What went well

- Players liked the game idea and found the metaphor fitting
- They complimented the game's visual design
- 9 turns seems like a decent length, time-wise: it took about 20 minutes to get from start to end. 
- Final scores were very close: 16 - 17 - 17 (joint winner)

|  | P1 | P2 | P3 | 
|--|----|----|----|
| Worker | 4 | 1 | 1 | 
| Drone  | 1 | 3 | 3 | 
| Honey  | very little | a lot | a lot |

## Even better if

- **Game ends ≠ game over** People understood that if the flowers run out the game ends. This needs to be explained to players before the games starts, as it's very different from many other games and it can change the way you play significantly.
- **Referendum** was triggered on round 6: 2 yes and 1 no. Didn't seem to be very exciting though. May be to do with the number of players (taking decisions in groups of 3 is much easier than in larger ones), the type of players (experienced playtesters are not easily excited) and the particular state of the game (2 players clearly benefitting from a replant).
- **Buy-then-steal**: people didn't seem to mind the `laissez-faire` approach.
- All players didn't like that you get extra "undeserved" honey at the beginning by rolling the die. There should be **no initial advantage** in their opinion. 
- The **drone power** as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking` didn't work as expected (more on that below). 

## The drone experiment 

The big change I experimented with was the drone: instead of stealing a steady 3 honey per turn, its stealing potential changed to `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. For example: if I attack a player that has 3 drones, then I'll roll the die and take `die - 3` from them. If `die - 3` is negative (eg: rolling a `1` would mean `1 - 3 = -2`) then I end up giving them some honey.

This makes the drone a **defensive bee** as well. The more drones you have, the less vulnerable you are to attacks. Drone become a sort of *insurance*, in other words.

I **expected** players would therefore stock up on drones to protect themselves, and attack less (as there's chance and risk involved). So in order to make honey, they may end up using their workers more.

What **actually happened** is quite different. Two players decided to buy drones immediately and kept attacking the third player, who for the sake of testing (and because he was the last to take a turn and not being able to afford a drone immediately) went for a workers-only strategy. The players with drones would **always attack the most vulnerable player**, making this an obvious choice and therefore the whole game experience less interesting. 

Bez said that on top of that, rolling the dice made your performance **too chance-based**, rather than being based on strategic moves. In order to win this version of the game, you just have to buy drones, attack vulnerable players and hope you roll high numbers.

An interesting problem emerged when **attacked players are low on honey**. This happened because Mike I (the one with workers) decided to keep his flowers for a few rounds instead of selling them on the market. Even though he was the only one with flowers and could have got the max price, he waited until he could safely sell, then start the round first by buying a drone. Otherwise, the other two players would have pillaged him. But then the other players complained that they wanted their loot. What to do? Liquidating bees as per the old rulebook (releasing bees back to the bank) would sentence Mike I to a quick elimination. He said (kind of verbatim) "If I have to give up bees, then I may as well give up entirely, because I have no chance to make a come-back". So we tried giving flowers instead: say you're attacked by a drone and have to pay 5 honey but only have 2, then you'd give 2 honey and 1 flower 🤔 ... not good. 

Maybe the next experiment could be: 

- **Everyone starts the game with a drone** (+ other bees & honey) to mitigate the strength of attacks and the most-vulnerable-crush situation.
- **Drones can steal only honey** (not flowers, not bees), so players should be encouraged to *store their wealth in flowers* and sell them on the market later, or *invest in bees*.  

## Actions

- [ ] Keep trying without the queen. 
- [ ] Keep experimenting with 9-rounds.
- [ ] **Start with a worker, a drone and 12 honey** (no die roll).
- [ ] Keep trying the drone power as `dice - drones of the player you're attacking`. However the **drone can steal only honey**, so you should be encouraged to keep your wealth in flowers and sell them on the market later.
- [ ] How could the `environmental apocalypse` be triggered involuntarily? Immediately after a referendum vote (and before replanting) if you voted `yes` you get a honey, if you voted `no` you get a flower. This means that you may run out of flowers before you get to replant them, even if `yes` won.  



