# Solo playtest v4.x | 4p

Solo-tested a modified [v4.1](../versions/v4.1) to experiment with some of the suggestions from the [previous day's playtest](2017-05-10.md).


## First experiment

Modifications:

* **8 rounds** instead of 12.
* Replanting **1/2 of the flowers** picked the previous round.
* **No queen**.
* **Drone** power as `dice - workers of the player you're attacking`. For example: if I attack a player that has 3 *workers*, then I'll roll the die and take `die - 3` from them. If the number is negative, then you end up giving them some honey. However, drones can **only steal honey** (not flowers, not bees).
* **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee.
* **Bees market**. Instead of buying bees during their turn, players buy their bees all together, right after they sold flowers.

### What went well

* **Bees market** right after the flowers market works. It mitigates the first player's advantage and speeds up the game.

### The drone experiment 

The `dice - workers of the player you're attacking` didn't work: with 3+ workers (which are the cheapest cards) you are practically guaranteed no attacks.

### The replant experiment

It was impractical, led to a lot of confusion: `did I pick this flower this turn, or the previous?`


## Second experiment

Modifications:

* **8 rounds** instead of 12.
* Replanting **one flower per player**.
* **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee (hard to solo-test but sounds like a good idea).
* Each player could only pick flowers of their chosen colour (to limit 1st-player advantage).
* **Bees market**. Instead of buying bees during their turn, players buy their bees all together, right after they sold flowers (to limit 1st-player advantage).
* Reintroduced the **queen** and made a big change to the **drone** (more on that in the table below).

### NewBees: freelance and full-time

* Freelance bees do their work for you once and then you discard them. 
* Full-time bees keep working for you for the rest of the game.

Type | Price | Action | Discard or keep?
---- | ----- | ------ | ----------------
**Drone** | **3** honey | Roll the die and then **steal as much honey as the die says** from another beesness. | Discard
**Worker** | **6** honey | **Pick 1 flower** from the garden. | Keep
**Queen** | **12** honey | Roll the die and then **save as much honey as the die says**. This means that drones won't be able to steal that honey, but also that you won't be able to use that honey to buy new bees (think of it as a *pension pot*). Place the saved honey on top of your Queen card. | Keep

### What went well

The new bees looked promising.  

The overpowering drone that we experienced in previous games was more balanced here, because:

* They cost 3 but you can only use them for 1 attack with the die, so at best you get a net profit of 3 (if you roll a 6)
* The queen allows you to save honey, so the drones have less to steal

Still, because drones are now the cheapest card (although they are the only *expendable* one) people may still be attracted by them.


## Actions

- [ ] Keep experimenting with 9 rounds for 3 players, 8 rounds for 4 (and 10 for 5?). This really depends on how we mitigate the first-player advantage. If there was little/no advantage, then the number of rounds wouldn't really matter and we could think of it more in terms of minutes (around 30 ideally)
- [ ] **Start with a worker, a drone and 6 honey** (no die roll).
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the **drone as an expendable card**.
- [ ] Experiment with the queen as *savings account*. 
- [ ] **Bees market** right after the flower market and before the start of a new round.
- [ ] Experiment with the *privatised garden*, a partition of the Garden of Commons where only you can pick flowers. You **replant 1 flower per colour**.
* [ ] **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee.
- [ ] How could the `environmental apocalypse` be triggered involuntarily? Immediately after a referendum vote (and before replanting) if you voted `yes` you get a honey, if you voted `no` you get a flower. This means that you may run out of flowers before you get to replant them, even if `yes` won.  