Tested [v4](https://github.com/matteomenapace/beesness/tree/v4) with 10 (but max 7 playing at the same time) [Ada](http://adacollege.org.uk/) students + [Tina](https://twitter.com/t0mf00lery).

### Things I've heard through the grapevine

> Let the game *beegin* (MJ)

> It's a *beesaster* (Ignas)

> *Beesus*, the miracle event card that turns honey into flowers (collective)

### What worked

- **Simplified price charts** made it quicker to work out the price of flowers.
- **Drones always spark drama!**  

### What didn't work

* **Privatisation** is not clear. Not sure if it's the word (some people suggested *store* or *keep* instead), the lack of metaphorical connections (queen bees IRL don't *privatise* flowers, or the mechanics. Jakub described it as **passive income**, maybe I could include that phrase in the rules. Ross didn't understand it from reading the rules, but he got it once I gave an example of how privatisation works.
* People asked repeatedly if they could **sell bees**. I could experiment with letting players do that, but for a really low price, like 1/6 of the initial cost. Could we try and deregulate this, so that players can sell bees at a varying price at the end of each round? 
* There has been only one attempt (in 3 games) at **trading bees between players**, and it wasn't even successful. Nevertheless, it's a harmless option, there's no point in removing it.
* People asked if they could buy **drones**, use them to steal honey and then buy again in the same turn. The answer is no, already in the rules. Maybe I could reinforce if by splitting the player actions in two:
	
	1. Buy beesness cards
	2. Use them to execute your beesness plan

	You can't buy more after you used cards. You'll have to wait for your next turn.

### Joining forces / loaning honey

People tried to make alliances and said there was no framework for that. "Maybe the game should allow you to make *trade agreements* where you loan your honey and in return you are guaranteed not to be attacked by their drones"

### Do you have to sell flowers?

In the first game we played yes, but then we experimented with a different system: the **stalk exchange**. 

With this new system, you don't have to sell the flowers your workers picked at the end of the same round. You can keep them instead, and sell them at later rounds.

Here's how it works. 

At the end of a round (when everyone has played their turn) it's *stalk exchange time*. The bank opens the stalk exchange and you have 1 minute to add or remove your flowers (however many you want) to it. Everybody does this at the same time. This creates a bit of a theatre, where players watch each other putting flowers on the market, adding some in or taking some out, to increase or decrease the flowers' price for everyone. When the minute is over (or when everyone agrees they are happy with how many flowers they're trading), count the flowers on the stalk exchange and see how much each flower is worth according to the price chart. Then pay off each player as usual.

So whilst the flower prices are still "fixed" (in the sense that there are only 3 tiers), the *stalk exchange*  adds an extra layer of choice and risk to the game. You cannot predict how many flowers are going to be traded, but you can risk keeping them to try and maximise your profits later.

The minute time-box creates a nice frenzy, which keeps everyone interested. 

[ When doing this it helps to temporarily put the garden flowers aside. If there were a board, it could be divided into garden and market. ]

### Post-game feedback form

After the game, I sent a short questionnaire to participants, asking:

1. Are there any aspects of the game that you found confusing?
2. Did you feel bored at any point?
3. How likely are you to recommend Beesness to your friends?

Here's the [report from Typeform](https://baddeo1.typeform.com/report/v0lyFY/S0Dy)

- 5/10 respondents found the **manual** confusing: missing examples and quite hard to understand. Some suggested to have 2 manuals: a short one to get the gist of the game, and a detailed one to learn everything. Also suggested having at the end the `can dos` and the `cannot dos` of the game. 

	Definitely work to be done on the manual front.
	
- 4/10 found the **flowers are running out** situation (everybody loses) confusing: `abrupt`, conflicting with the winning goal and hard to manage because some players can get `greedy`. 

	I think these reflect the experience I wanted to instigate, so I'm happy with that.
	
- 3/10 were puzzled by the **queen / privatisation**. Some thought the queen could only privatise one flower in total, and that it privatises a flower gathered by one of the workers (it couldn't simply take one from the garden). Others thought that it would safeguard honey profit from `inflation`, as in always giving you the maximum of 3 honey. 

	I think I'm scrapping privatisation, as it doesn't add anything meaningful to the game for it to be worth the confusion it creates. 

- Moments of **boredom** were related by 4/10 players to other taking t extremely long on their turns. 

	Introducing a timer could be a good solution for that.
 
### Actions

- [ ] Split the player actions in two:	
	1. Buy beesness cards
	2. Use them to execute your beesness plan
- [ ] ~Bee cards~ Beesness cards
- [ ] State explicitly that honey should be kept visible at all times, you're not allowed to hide it. 
- [ ] Test the *stalk exchange*.
- [ ] Try and have players trade their flowers for honey during their turn, by using `total workers` instead of `total flowers` as the variable to work out the individual price of a flower... 
	
	OR
	
	`You could sell your flowers now for 1 honey each, or wait for the market place at the end of the round`
- [ ] Timer to limit a player's round.
- [ ] > If you take a few flowers, you can sell them for higher because they are scarce
- [ ] ~Suggest protocol for privatised flowers, eg: put them on top of your queen card to distinguish them from the flowers you take with the workers.~
- [ ] Scrap privatisation.
- [ ] Make a one-pager manual, and an extended version with `can dos` and `cannot dos` (and FAQs?)
- [ ] Diagram explaining beesness cards in the manual

#### Metaphors

Flowers represent the **commodities market**, which follows a supply&demand mechanic. 

Bees instead represent the **labour market**, which in the current version of the game is heavily regulated (fixed prices, no dismissals). Bees are also regarded in infinite demand, as the rules don't state what happens if you run out of them 

#### ...what if there weren't infinite bees? 

Shuffle all the bee cards, then draw `players x 2` bees to start with. Every round you roll the die to introduce new bees. This way the bees market would also become fluctuating, and players could *beed* to buy cards at the beginning of the round...  