# v3 - 5p

Tested [v3](../versions/v3) with 5 Decoded peeps: Jonny, Josh, Marc, Federico and Howard. 

### Things I've heard through the grapevine

"Drones are fun" - Jonny

"Can we *beed* honey?" - Josh

"It's November dude" - Marc

"It's like the cold war" - Josh

"The early Queen is a good strategy" - Howard (aka the *regular saver*)

"*Beeoliberalism*" - Josh

"Jonny with his drones will decide who wins" Federico (whispered)

### Game opening

Issue: it seems that the first couple of rounds are slow and offer no real choice to players (you can only take a flower and wait). 

Solution? **Players start with** **8 honey**, so they can immediately strategise: invest in two workers, buy a drone, save the honey for later...

### Flower replanting

Issue: it's boring, confusing and time-consuming, having to count all the flowers and then adding half of them to the garden. It also doesn't add anything meaningful to the gameplay.

Solution? At the end of every round, **replant one flower per player**. Simples. 

### Can I sell bees?

This question kept coming up, from different people. Short answer is *no*. Currently you can buy bees, but the only way to get rid of them is if you have no honey and someone else raids you with drones, in which case they can force you to give one of your bees back to the bank and cash in its price.

I decided to prevent players from selling bees, mostly because I thought it would slow down the game. Also, I don't think players should be able to make bees *redundant* and cash in all the honey they initially paid for them. However, I am open to *bee trade*, for example allowing / encouraging people to trade bees between them (not selling back to the bank, but checking if anyone wants a worker or a drone...)

### Does my bees arsenal count at the end of the game?

Currently not. It's just the honey you have (ie, your *profits*) and not the overall valuation of the colony. Mostly because I wanted to keep the game simple. But again, I'm open to trying out different solutions here. Maybe your bees count for half of their initial value (eg: your queen counts for 8 honey, drones 4 etc)

### Workers and austerity

To keep things simple, I'm thinking of ditching the "take a flower only if there are more than half of the initial flowers" constraint of the *Worker Bee*. That in turn would make the *Austerity Bee* needless. A type of bee which you guys didn't seem to consider much (apart from Josh) so it shouldn't be missed.

### Generation vs privatisation

Players who bought queens used them exclusively to generate new bees. That was interesting to observe, but that also created some confusion and edge cases. For example, when Federico bought his queen, he generated a drone and we were wondering if he could use that drone immediately. I would have thought yes, why not... but most players were inclined to say no, because you "already did your *bee action*" for that round.

To avoid this and simplify the queen, I consider scrapping the generation mechanic and have privatisation as its only skill (which is still a really profitable one). 

### Using drones money to buy more drones

Something I hadn't anticipated, which Jonny exploited to the full, was launching drone attacks and then immediately use the loot to acquire more drones, and deploy the newly acquired drone for further attacks...

Marc lamented there need to be clear rules on when you can use what you bought (probably because he was victim of Jonny's strikes at every turn). 

My approach could be summarised with "why not". I'd rather have general principles that people can interpret, rather than strict rules that cover all the edge cases.  

### Using drones to kill other bees (kamikaze)?

Someone, I think Federico, suggested this. Something to try out. My hunch is that players wouldn't find it useful to sacrifice a drone to eliminate another bee, but then again I could well be wrong. 

### Who starts the next round

Federico suggested that the last player to use a drone in a round starts the next round, so that the other players could have a go at retaliating.

Starting every round with the same player should definitely be changed. Nobody did any bidding (or *beedding*, as Josh put it), probably because there was no advantage in going first in a round.

A simpler solution could be to rotate the player who starts a round. If you started this round, then the player to your left will start the next, and so on.

### Deck-building

Another suggestion from Federico, inspired by [Dominion](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/36218/dominion). Deck-building means that you can buy bee cards and then at each round you shuffle your deck of cards and pick 2-3 of them which will be your "bee actions" for that round. So you still control the probability of actions but there is a bit of chance. And you would prevent [Jonny's drones loophole](#using-drones-money–to-buy-more-drones).

### More suggestions from Federico

* Queen could cost you honey + other bees: you have to trade in a couple of workers for example, plus some honey, in order to acquire a queen

* A new type of bee that simply destroys flowers? Maybe I got this wrong...

* Inspiring games to play: [Concordia](https://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/124361/concordia), [Not Alone](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/194879/not-alone) and [Agricola](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/31260/agricola)

