# The Hive v4.2 - 4p

Tested [v4.2](../versions/v4.2) with Jonas, Jordi, Francesca, Grit, Timothy, Valentina and Matteo at [The Hive](http://www.thehivewellbeing.com/).

[Listen to them playing and their feedback after](https://soundcloud.com/bpt20170515/jonas-jordi-francesca-grit-timothy-valentina-matteo-the-hive?in=beesness/sets/playtesting).

Main differences from v4 and v4.1:

* **8 rounds** instead of 12.
* Replanting **one flower per player**.
* **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee (hard to solo-test but sounds like a good idea).
* Each player can only pick flowers of their chosen colour (to limit 1st-player advantage). This also means that *Beesaster* happens **if flowers go below the number of players** (eg: with 4 players, the game is over if there are 3 or less flowers left).
* **Bees market**. Instead of buying bees during their turn, players buy their bees all together, right after they sold flowers (to limit 1st-player advantage).
* Bees: **freelance and full-time**.

Type | Price | Action | Discard or keep?
---- | ----- | ------ | ----------------
**Drone** | **3** honey | Roll the die and then **steal as much honey as the die says** from another beesness. | Discard
**Worker** | **6** honey | **Pick 1 flower** from the garden. | Keep
**Queen** | **12** honey | Roll the die and then **save as much honey as the die says**. This means that drones won't be able to steal that honey, but also that you won't be able to use that honey to buy new bees (think of it as a *pension pot*). Place the saved honey on top of your Queen card. | Keep	
		
The game was over at round 7 when Jonas&Jordi decided to pull the trigger *beesaster*. As [Jonas put it](https://www.instagram.com/p/BUJYDPgBlXf/?taken-by=jonashaefele)

> One round before the game was supposed to end we created a *beesaster* and killed our garden. We couldn't manage our very simple resources in the game, yet as a species we think we are good at managing the resources of our planet. Lively discussion erupted at the table, people accusing each other of doing wrong, of being selfish and yet we couldn't safe the world of Beesness. Let's make sure it doesn't come to that point IRL! 

> Amazing game, frustrating but incredibly fun at the same time!

## What went well

* Being able to **only pick flowers of your chosen colour** significantly limits the 1st player advantage, and it also simplifies the part when you pay off people after the flowers market (players give you the flowers they're selling and you can immediately work out who gets what).
* Playing in **teams** makes the game a bit slower, but more exciting (a lot of plotting and secret discussions). Some players suggested there should be a **timer** to make sure turns don't drag on for too long, like 1m max per turn (we tried that at Ada and it worked well).
* The **bees market** also limits the first player advantage and speeds up the game.
* **Freelance and full-time bees**: once people got past the confusion of playing with obsolete cards, they didn't clearly prefer one card over others, which may mean that the cards are more balanced now.
* **Referendum**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee. This made negotiations easier, and felt more like real politics.   

## Even better if

People suggested a few things:

* **Drone as a defence card**. When attacked by a drone, you could use your own drone to defend yourself (Risk-style, or use your drone to cancel out their drones, both get discarded).   
* The **beesaster situation should be somehow regulated**, so that if a player gets to have the *absolute power* to end the game, the conditions for triggering a referendum are dictated by a card (there could be a pile of event cards).
* There should be a **cap** for how much honey you can save into the queen. 12? Otherwise there is not much of an incentive to get extra queens.

## Actions

- [ ] Keep experimenting with 9 rounds for 3 players, 8 rounds for 4 (and 10 for 5?).
- [ ] **Start with a worker, a drone and 6 honey** (no die roll).
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the **drone as an expendable card**.
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the queen as *savings account*, but with a cap (12, or whatever the price of that card is). 
- [ ] **Bees market** right after the flower market and before the start of a new round. Including the first round.
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the *privatised garden*, a partition of the Garden of Commons where only you can pick flowers. You **replant 1 flower per colour**.
* [ ] **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee.
- [ ] Drone as a defence card (Risk-style).

