# The Hive v4.2 - 4p

Tested [v4.2](../versions/v4.2) with Evan, Dan, Yvonne, Gideon, Raminta, Paris and Alex at [The Hive](http://www.thehivewellbeing.com/).

[Listen to them playing and their feedback after](https://soundcloud.com/bpt20170530/beesness-3005?in=beesness/sets/playtesting).

Tweaks / experiments:

* Players can sell bees back to the bank (aka *make them redundant*) at 1/3 of initial price.
* Players can buy bees with the Queen honey.
* Queen's cap is 12 honey.
* *Lean bonus*? Pay 1 honey per remaining bee. 
* *Environmental bonus*? Get 1 honey per flower left in the garden.

Final scores:

|  | Dan&Yvonne | Gideon&Raminta | Paris&Alex | Evan | 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Drone | ? | ? | ? | ? |
| Worker | 1 | 3 | 4 | 3 |
| Queen | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 |
| Honey | 18 | 17 | 18 | 13 |

## What went well

* Reference cards were useful, in the sense that people used them constantly.
* Referendum was triggered several times (starting on round 4). 

## Even better if

* Paris commented that the *beesaster referendum* was used  by players with lots of bees as a *machiavellian* move to curb the opponents, rather than a way to preserve nature. He suggested that each player gets a vote, rather than one vote per bee.
* The flowers market on most rounds was giving 6 honey per flower (`1P` ... `2P-1`). Maybe it could be skewed even more to 12, 9, 6, 3, 0? 
* Flowers have an upper limit. If you trigger multiple referendums you won't flood the garden, as you can't put more flowers that there are in the box (12 per colour).
* Reference cards: players can play their turn **actions in any order**. 
* Reference cards: make it clear that players can use all their cards they have during their turn (not a single card per turn).
* Pair up people who don't know each other.
* Instead of selling bees for honey at 1/3 of price, you could *upgrade* bees, eg trade a worker for 2 drones, 2 workers for a queen etc.
* Gideon suggested having a token to pass around as a **turn-tracker**. There would also be a **round-tracker**. Together they would form a shape (eg a hexagon). Let's say you started this round, at that point you'd have both the round and the turn tracker. When your turn is over you pass the turn tracker to the next player, and when the turn tracker gets back to you that means the round is over.
* Paris suggested that the Queen card should be a *Hive* card, as it makes more sense metaphorically. 

## Actions

- [ ] Reference cards: players can play their turn **actions in any order**.
- [ ] Reference cards: make it clear that players can **use all their cards** they have during their turn.
- [ ] **Timer**: 1 minute.
- [ ] Honey limit (12) should be on the Queen card.
- [ ] **Market prices**: 12, 9, 6, 3, 0?
- [ ] **Calendar** with turn & market phases.
- [ ] Encourage **trading and negotiating**.
- [ ] Solo-playtest: instead of selling bees for honey at 1/3 of price, you could *upgrade* bees, eg trade a worker for 2 drones, 2 workers for a queen etc.
- [ ] Solo-playtest: *Hive* card for savings. What about the Queen then?