# Ravensbourne v4.2 - 4p

Tested [v4.2](../versions/v4.2) with [James](https://twitter.com/cyberwest) and the Web Media Year2 students at [Ravensbourne](https://github.com/RavensbourneWebMedia/). There were some 10 people so we played 2 games at the same time.

[Listen to them playing and their feedback after](https://soundcloud.com/bpt20170516/year2-students-james-ravensbourne?in=beesness/sets/playtesting).

Main differences from v4 and v4.1:

* **8 rounds** instead of 12.
* Replanting **one flower per player**.
* **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee (hard to solo-test but sounds like a good idea).
* Each player can only pick flowers of their chosen colour (to limit 1st-player advantage). This also means that *Beesaster* happens **if flowers go below the number of players** (eg: with 4 players, the game is over if there are 3 or less flowers left).
* **Bees market**. Instead of buying bees during their turn, players buy their bees all together, right after they sold flowers (to limit 1st-player advantage).
* Bees: **freelance and full-time**.

Type | Price | Action | Discard or keep?
---- | ----- | ------ | ----------------
**Drone** | **3** honey | Roll the die and then **steal as much honey as the die says** from another beesness. | Discard
**Worker** | **6** honey | **Pick 1 flower** from the garden. | Keep
**Queen** | **12** honey | Roll the die and then **save as much honey as the die says**. This means that drones won't be able to steal that honey, but also that you won't be able to use that honey to buy new bees (think of it as a *pension pot*). Place the saved honey on top of your Queen card. | Keep	

Final scores:

|  | James | Rajeev&Joe | Akvile | Darren&Tom | 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Drone | lots | lots | few | lots |
| Worker | 2 | 3 | 2 | 1 |
| Queen | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| Honey | 13 | 23 | 15 | 21 |

|  | Dean | Ben | Josh | Afsara | 
|--|--|--|--|--|
| Drone | ? | ? | ? | ? |
| Worker | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 |
| Queen | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| Honey | 21 | 11 | 13 | 10 |

The first group of players had a slightly more generous market than the second, which may explain why scores were lower in the second game. 

Neither games had referendums, nor beesasters. It seems that they established a decent economy without being too competitive. Some people used many drones to steal off each other (instead of picking flowers) while others decided to go for a low-profile, steady income (1 flower per turn or so). Not the sort of cut-throat capitalism that we've seen in other games, but somehow it worked :)

## What went well

* Being able to **only pick flowers of your chosen colour** significantly limits the 1st player advantage, and it also simplifies the part when you pay off people after the flowers market (players give you the flowers they're selling and you can immediately work out who gets what).
* The **bees market** also limits the first player advantage and speeds up the game.
* **Freelance and full-time bees**: once people got past the confusion of playing with obsolete cards, they didn't clearly prefer one card over others, which may mean that the cards are more balanced now. 

## Even better if

People suggested a few things:

* There should be a **cap** for how much honey you can save into the queen. 12? Otherwise there is not much of an incentive to get extra queens. Plus stealing-then-banking takes the fun out of the game a little. Ben suggested that on your turn you can either use the queen, or the drone, but not both at the same time. Josh suggested you can only bank up to half of what you have.
* **Reference cards**: quick overview of rounds and player actions on their turns (or `reminder` as Afsara called them).
* **Flower market charts**: `-` or `→` instead of `...`. Also make it clear that it's the total number of flowers players are selling this round (maybe have a reference card for this too).
* **Calendar** / round tracker should be a single line, and have indications for when the game ends (depending on the number of players).
* Rajeev suggested to limit the number of drones one can use each turn.
* Akvile+Rajeev suggested the drone could be reframed as **tax evasion** rather than *stealing* (you could use your drones after the flower market to dodge taxes or carry your money off-shore). Joe pointed out that the drone adds a lot of fun and excitement to the game though, by pitting players directly against each other.
* Tom suggested that instead of stealing honey from another player, the drone would allow you to take other people's flowers and if you manage to sell it you double your profit on it.
* People agreed that using the drone is `taking a gamble` and that's fun. 

## Actions

- [ ] Keep experimenting with 9 rounds for 3 players, 8 rounds for 4 (and 10 for 5?).
- [ ] **Start with a worker, a drone and 6 honey** (no die roll).
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the **drone as an expendable card**.
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the queen as *savings account*, but with a **cap** (12, or whatever the price of that card is). 
- [ ] **Bees market** right after the flower market and before the start of a new round. Including the first round.
- [ ] Keep experimenting with the *privatised garden*, a partition of the Garden of Commons where only you can pick flowers. You **replant 1 flower per colour**.
* [ ] **Ref**: instead of 1 vote per player, you get one vote per bee.
- [ ] Drone as a defence card (Risk-style).
- [ ] Design **reference cards**.
- [ ] **Flower market charts**: `-` or `→` instead of `...`. Also make it clear that it's the total number of flowers players are selling this round (maybe have a reference card for this too).
- [ ] **Calendar** / round tracker should be a single line, and have indications for when the game ends (depending on the number of players).
- [ ] Reframe `steal` as `appropriate` or `take`?
- [ ] Solo-playtest the **drone power allowing you to take other people's flowers** (instead of honey), and if you manage to sell the *stolen* flowers you double your profit on it. What's the risk?
- [ ] Solo-playtest the **drone as a tax-dodging** bee.