# 2p - v4

Tested [v4](https://github.com/matteomenapace/beesness/tree/v4) with Aimee.

## What went well

- Printed cards and wood tokens feel good.
- *Stalk exchange* mechanic creates excitement. `What's it gonna beee?`
- Drones create drama (we knew that already, but hey)

## Even better if...

- Drones seem too powerful. There is no risk involved in using them, apart from the threat of retaliation from other players. In a 2-player game, you may end up buying drones just to pass honey back and forth from each other
- The *stalk exchange* is rather predictable in a 2-player game.

## Actions

- [ ] Using a bee sticker (or any other token) to keep track of the player who started the round
- [ ] Try **chance cards**, to be drawn each time you use a drone. These could either reward or penalise you. For example, penalising chance cards could be: 
	- miss a turn
	- only steal 2 honey (or give 1 back)
	- only steal 1 honey (or give 2 back)
	- steal no honey
	- give honey to the bank
	- destroy flowers from the garden
	- give some of your flowers back
	Rewarding chance cards could be:
	- steal 4
	- steal 5
	- steal 6
	- get extra 1, 2 or 3 honey from the bank
	- steal also a flower

- [ ] Add **extra price tiers** to the *stalk exchange*

	total flowers | price per flower
	------------- | ----------------
	< P <br>P = number of players | 6
	P ... 2P - 1 | 5
	2P ... 3P - 1 | 4
	3P ... 4P - 1 | 3
	4P ... 5P - 1 | 2
	5P ... 6P - 1 | 1
	
	With P = 4
	
	total flowers | price per flower
	------------- | ----------------
	0 ... 3 | 6
	4 ... 7 | 5
	8 ... 11 | 4
	12 ... 15 | 3
	16 ... 19 | 2
	20 + | 1
	
# NPT1 | 4p - v4

Tested [v4](https://github.com/matteomenapace/beesness/tree/v4) with Aimee, Nelson and Lee at NowPlayThis.

Nelson mentioned that `bees knees` allegedly is a phrase originated in Italo-American NYC communities (mispronunciation of `business`)

## Nelson suggests

* A couple of extra cards:

	* a queen-style bee that lets you **poach** other bees at 50% from other beesnesses
	* a **propolis bee** that helps you keep the hive healthy (in case of an *infection*)	

* Cards could have a standard (usable every turn) and a special skill (usable only once?), for example: the worker's standard skill is to pick up one flower per turn, and its special skill is to trade flowers for honey at a fixed price.

* Use **one type of cards at a time** (`either take flowers or honey`), which would make the game `more strategic` (this is very similar to v5's core mechanic)

* Add **conditions**, eg: you need a drone in order to access the stalk exchange 

* Look into [Viticulture](https://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/128621/viticulture) 

In the Typeform NPS Nelson gave it an 8, as `it has the potential to be a fun game, even more when you start exploring the analogies (which can also be the source of fun, as we had), no 10 because it's still not there yet`. He also mentioned that he found the game goal confusing: `Is the final goal to maintain enough flowers to keep the bees alive or to get the most honey, even at the cost of maintaining just the one last flower? Maybe the bees start dying if there are too few flowers (say one per bee), before total extinction if there are no more flowers.` 

# NPT2 | 5p - v4

Tested [v4](https://github.com/matteomenapace/beesness/tree/v4) with Ben, Alex, Maria, Jennie and Neale at NowPlayThis.

Ben and Alex commented that the game would be quite different if we had some cardboard to **hide your cards and honey** (like in [Game of Thrones](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/103343/game-thrones-board-game-second-edition))

New bees suggested:

* a **defender** bee to protect you from drone attacks
* a **killer** bee to destroy one of your opponent's cards per turn

Ben started a **reseller market**: bought a queen, then started buying up cheap bees and offering them to other players at a slightly higher price.

## The referendum

The big change we introduced to the game in this session relates to the **beesaster situation**. After several failed attempts at replanting, with flowers stuck at 1, Alex noted that the consensus system is tricky/broken because there will always be some player who has no incentive to donate bees and replant flowers (`by the time my turn comes, those flowers will have been taken`). Neale suggested the replanting goes ahead if there is a **majority** of players willing to donate. There was some resistance from other players but we decided to try it. So **referendum** it was. We then noticed that 1 bee for 1 flower seemed to be not enough of an incentive for players to donate bees (again, they worked out that by the time their turn would come those flowers would be gone). So we decided **each donated bee will get you 2 flowers**.

## Actions

- [ ] Update the rulebook with the *referendum* mechanics.

# NPT3 | 5p - v4.1

Tested v4.1 (v4 + referendum) with Ben, Matt, ???, Phil and Justin at NowPlayThis.

## The referendum, again

We clarified the referendum mechanics: as soon as the number of flowers goes under the number of players, and as long as it stays under, you can **trigger a beesaster referendum at any point during your turn**. 

This means that the person currently playing has the power to invoke a referendum, and they could leverage the fact that they could potentially end the game by taking the last flowers (provided they have enough workers to do so). 

This also means that multiple referendums could be triggered during the same round (although not likely). Some players said there should be a way to limit how many times one triggers a ref, for instance by having a limited number of *voting cards*. Not sure it's necessary: referendums don't get triggered so often because players understand that unless the circumstances of the majority have changed the outcome would be the same.

When negotiating a referendum, people started to bribe other players for their vote, offering honey (not flowers).

## Other suggestions

* Queen to be able to steal bees from other beesnesses?

* Drone: instead of being a fixed 3 honey, you could roll the die (maybe a special die that has -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or so.. or simply a 6-face die from which you subtract 2)

* We asked this players what they thought of having **chance cards** associated to using the drone. They said it would not be worth the risk (hmm)

* There should be a way to **re-enter the game**, for example if you have a team of workers and flowers are running low. Maybe sell your bees at half their initial price.

## Actions

- [ ] Can you lend honey? Yas.
- [ ] Try the `roll die - 2` drone
 
# NPT4 | 4p - v4.1

Tested v4.1 (v4 + referendum) with Kiran and his friends, Nikita&Bav and Karen&Seb at NowPlayThis.

Since people were playing in **teams**, we experimented with rolling the die twice on the starting round. This gave one team an extra boost, meaning that they could buy a queen and start getting bees at half price immediately. To balance this, maybe the initial capital could be 9 honey and you get to **roll the die twice**?

The **referendum** mechanics worked well and sparked drama throughout the game, with scheming and negotiating taking the centre-stage. At one point Kiran threatened to kill the game (there was one flower left) if other players didn't agree to pay him with some honey. Good try Kiran. He did obtain a non-aggression promise in exchange for keeping the game alive and triggering a referendum.

At some point people created a **coalition** against one team which was perceived to be too strong. They agreed to sell drones to each other `for dirt cheap` so that they could steal more honey. The coalition broke down after a couple of turns when one team decided to keep the drones they had just been given. Whilst an interesting tactic, it felt a little too dirty to be allowed as is, so I proposed that the trading of bees can happen as a **public auction** to which every player can take part. That way you can still trade them, but the player being targeted can still counteract the coalition by taking part in the auction.  

## Other suggestions

* **Marketplace prices change** each time? I think this means having more variety in the outcomes of the marketplace.
* It would be nice to have **multiple ways to win the game**, not just hoarding honey.
* 12 rounds felt a bit too long. There should be a way to make the **game shorter** (eg: 6 rounds, more honey at play). 
* Buy first and steal later needed reminding repeatedly.
* If you buy 2 queens what happens? You get bees at 1/3 of the price.

## Actions

- [ ] Try initial capital at 9 honey and you get to roll the die twice.
- [ ] If you buy 2 queens what happens? You get bees at 1/3 of the price.
- [ ] Try shorter game (6 rounds or time limit).

# Typeform

After the event I sent people a quick questionnaire:

1. Are there any aspects of the game that you found confusing?
2. Did you start to feel bored at any point during the game?
3. How likely are you to recommend Beesness to your friends?

Here are the [results](https://matteomenapace.typeform.com/report/lgXLLi/Zm4y): 5/13 people answered.

## Are there any aspects of the game that you found confusing?

1. **2/5** the *sequence of actions* (eg: buy cards, use cards, trade flowers), with one explaining that `at times I was so focussed on what other players were doing that I forgot the order of the actions`.
2. **1/5** *replanting flowers*, the *metaphors*, the *everybody loses when all flowers are gone* situation, the *game goal* and the *opening dice roll*

	- `Everybody loses just felt like a poor ending that could be purposefully invoked, when it was invoked by the other player - I was considering doing it at some point when it became obvious I couldn't win but chose not to in order to not spoil the game for others - but I didn't like that it was possible for another player to spoil the game as well.`
	
	- `Opening dice roll for additional honey felt weird to me also - why not keep it equal to start? (maybe because capitalism? but then I think the game could be in danger of being more a social commentary than as an actual fun game)`

	- `Is the final goal to maintain enough flowers to keep the bees alive or to get the most honey, even at the cost of maintaining just the one last flower? Maybe the bees start dying if there are too few flowers (say one per bee), before total extinction if there are no more flowers.`
3. **0/5** the *worker bees*, the *drones*, the *queen*, the *flower market*, the *game's manual* (we didn't test this because I was explaining the game) and the *flower-honey conversion chart*.

## Did you start to feel bored at any point during the game?

* Not bored but I didn't get a chance to look at all of the other exhibits because the game took longer than expected. Maybe a **quick play version** of the game would be good?
* Perhaps **less than 12 rounds**. Completing the game in 30 minutes would be better as it took around 60 minutes.
* When it became clear I couldn't win, however, this was due to an obviously poor strategy (that I just wanted to try out), so it's my fault. 

## How likely are you to recommend Beesness to your friends?

**Average 7**

* **10**	

	I liked the concept of the game and the fact that a group of strangers could have fun playing it. It was quite a unique and original game idea. It was fun to play, I liked that the players could be tactical and work our different strategies.
	
* **8**	

	It has the potential to be a fun game, even more when you start exploring the analogies (which can also be the source of fun, as we had). No 10 because it's still not there yet.	

* **8**	

	Very enjoyable but perhaps slight improvements.

* **5**	

	Did not like co-op aspect.	
	
* **4**	
	
	It wasn't unenjoyable to play but the everybody-loses ending spoilt the game for me I think.
	
 	 	 	 	