## What do I want to learn?

### Aims

- test the Opportunibee cards as a trading mechanism that gives people more ways to make positive choices (eg replanting) and catch up or get unstuck
- test the metaphors (flowers + honey + money)
- game as a thought experiment: what if we impose the capitalist mandate on a hive (ie when a hive becomes a beesness)?
- test the length, with the goal to get a 20-30 minutes game

### How it works. Explain:

1. the goal (manage your beesness and get rich quick)
2. the core mechanics (one card per round)
3. what each card gets you
4. the Opportunibee cards

## What happened?

Played with Paolo, Steve and Catherine at Ziferblat
http://meetu.ps/e/FbYc2/sDM7/a

- Took a while for people to get the game. I have the feeling that one player still didn’t get it at the end.
- There was a bit of confusion between flowers and honey.
- Opportunibee cards were used only a few times, to recycle and replant. The single-bee replanting card wasn’t popular, while the cooperative ones got more interest (bigger returns).
- It wasn’t clear when the “honey kill flowers” would happen, therefore people didn’t really see the point of recycling honey from the garden.  As a consequence, recycling cards weren’t considered much.
- Winner was Paolo, who played with the only goal of making money, never even considering the cooperative actions. He used one Opportunibee card, as a safe option to make money instead of entering a blind bid with me.
- He said that other players should have ganged up to stop him from running away.

## What did I learn?

### About Beesness

- The die as a marker to resolve tie breaks was confusing. I think the problem was that people thought it would be the die roll to determine who goes first in a turn-based mechanic, which is more common than the simultaneous action mechanic on which Beesness is based. There should be a different token and a different way to establish who’s the first one to get that rotating token. Maybe everyone has to make a buzzing sound, and whoever lasts longer can get the token for the first round, then passes it on to the person to their left at the end of a round.
- Opportunibee cards are worth another test, with some tweaks:
    - they should give players real options to get unstuck, individually (eg: trade 1 bee for 2 honey cubes)
    - the cooperative cards should give big incentives (not just proportional to the individual ones) as they require a lot of negotiation
    - some cards should help players gang up to stop the leader (eg: replant 9 or so to stop the profiteering)
    - identify the moments when people may lack options in their hands, and provide choices through Opportunibees
    - 4 cards available from the deck, unused ones are discarded and new 4 are drawn. this could be a nice end-of round mechanic, maybe appointing the person with the token to carry that out.
- The “honey kills flowers” mechanic needs clarification (and possibly culling). Metaphorically it doesn’t make much sense. Maybe keep it simple for now: the honey needs recycling because there’s a finite amount of it, but it doesn’t impact flowers.  

💡 What if the honey return depends on the amount of honey already in the garden / market? Like 6 - your H. That would force each player to recycle their own honey. But what about collective responsibility? Could be 12 - total H? Would the H be counted before or after the bid? Before.
💡 Replanting flowers would be incentivised because that’s the only way to make new honey.

### About playtesting / in general

- The main goal of playtesting is to gently get into other players’ heads. Understand what mental model of the game system they have developed, and how that model guides their choices.
- Throughout the game, take notes about curious choices people are making, so that you can ask them about those later.
- Observe how the energy between players changes throughout the game. What moments generate more excitement? When are people seemingly bored, or losing interest.
- Note what they tell each other. How are they interpreting rules, and how are they communicating their strategies (including bluffs).
- Answer questions with questions: if I weren’t here, what would you do?
- At the end of the game (or even mid-game) ask questions to understand what people are thinking, what considerations influence their choices (which you noted earlier).
- Ask them what they’d do differently if they were to play this game again. This should reveal how they strategise, and what their mental model is.
- What did you (dis)like most about the game are tricky questions, especially if asked to non-designers. Try to steer these conversations towards thoughts+actions+feelings (what did you think, what did you do, how did that feel) rather than discussing game features.

Happy to read some of the above observations in [this excellent article on observational playtesting](http://johnbrieger.com/blog/?p=285), and [this list of 10 debrief questions](https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/WesleyRockholz/20140418/215819/10_Insightful_Playtest_Questions.php).
