## What do I want to learn?

### Aims

- test the metaphors (flowers + honey + money)
- game as a thought experiment: what if we impose the capitalist mandate on a hive (ie when a hive becomes a beesness)?
- as a teacher i want to test if this game can be a thinking tool (fun + learning)
- test the balance between components: W up to 2, Q up to 4, D 12 - F, 2H per F, win at 36, start with 6H
- test the length, with the goal to get a 20-30 minutes game
- test the dilemma: want to contribute or make more money? see how this plays out in a gaming vs classroom environments

### How it works. Explain:

1. the goal (manage your beesness and get rich quick)
2. the core mechanics (one card per round)
3. what each card gets you
4. the RRR choices you have at the end of a round (replant, recycle and retribute)

## What happened?

Played with Drew, Kieran, Ruth and Hywel at London weekly Friday DAYTIME playtest (Waterloo)
http://meetu.ps/e/FctCW/sDM7/a

- First game didn’t finish, as it became clear that it wasn’t balanced.
- Kieran stress-tested the second game (back to 3W + 3Q) by hoarding drones. Once he had all of them, he declared himself the winner :)

## What did I learn?

### About Beesness

- Choice between RRR and money was a non-choice. 90% of the time people went for money.
- Q up to 4 and W up to 2 seemed unbalanced, compared to the more oiled version Q3 and W3
- Drew said there need to be more ways to make positive choices.
- The other playtesters identify the flowers supply as a problem in the game engine. In order for the game to flow as a fun piece of entertainment, flowers have to flow in steadily. Otherwise the game grinds and you can’t expect players to “do the right thing” and be selfless in a competitive game.
- Kieran suggested to differentiate between workers: some would be more effective at replanting (eg: +1, +2, + 3). Also queens should be able to replant flowers, and flowers should be replanted at a variable rate (eg: >3 +2, 3-6 +1, 7+ nada). Of course this would help towards a fun game, but it would go against the “lesson” of the game.   
- People enjoyed the deduction dynamics that the game generates. They also liked the tension of the blind bids.

### About playtesting / in general

- It was good to explain the critical/educational aims of the project and its intended audience before I started teaching the rules. This context helped fellow designers and playtesters offer relevant feedback.
